[[Category:Incomplete]]
__NOTOC__

{| style="padding:0.3em; clear:right; margin-left:15px; border:1px solid #A3B1BF; background:#f7f8ff; text-align:left; font-size:95%; line-height:1.5em;" align="right"
| style="background: #ACD; text-align: center; border: 1px solid #7BC;" | '''Scripting Overview'''
|-
|'''General'''
* [[Adding a Script]]
* [[Basic Scripting]]
* [[:Category:Script_Command|Script Commands]]
* [[Overview of Errors]]
* [[Tips_and_Tricks_(Scripting)|Tips and Tricks]]
|-
|'''Map Flags'''
* [[Mapflag|Map Flags]]
|-
|'''Monster Spawns'''
* [[Permanent Monster Spawn]]
|-
|'''Non Playable Characters'''
* [[Loops]]
* [[Timers (Scripting)|Timers]]
* [[Variables]]
* [[Menus]]
|-
|'''Warp Points'''
* [[Defining Warp Points]]
|-
|'''Shops'''
|-
|'''Functions'''
* [[Functions]]
* [[WoE]]
|-
|}

All pages that specifically related to the '''Scripting''' goes in this Category Page. 

Articles will cover the following topics Map Flags, Permanent Monster Spawns, Non Playable Characters, Warp Points, Shops, and Functions.

All articles related to scripting can be found alphabetically [[:Category:Scripting]]


== General ==
Articles in this category are mainly written to create or improve your foundations on Scripting.

More Information:
* [[Adding_a_Script|[Tutorial] Add a Script]]
* [[Basic_Scripting|[Tutorial] NPC Scripting (Basics)]]
* [[Overview_of_Errors|NPC Errors]]
* [[Tips_and_Tricks_(Scripting)|Tips and Tricks]]

== Map Flags ==
A Map Flag describes restriction, property, and behavior of a certain map. The map flags alter the behavior of the map regarding teleporting, storing location when disconnected, dead branch usage, penalties upon death, PVP behavior, WoE behavior, ability to use skills or open up trade deals ,current weather effects, and whether day/night will be in effect on this map. Articles about Map Flags are placed under this category...

Read more at [[Mapflag|Map Flags]]

== Monster Spawns ==
In Depth articles that are related to Monster Spawns can be found under this category.

* [[Permanent_Monster_Spawn|Permanent Monster Spawns]]

== Non Playable Character ==
In Depth articles that are related to NPC Scripting can all be found under this category.

More Information
* [[Loops|NPC Loops]]
* [[Timers (Scripting)|NPC Timers]]
* [[Variables|NPC Variables]]
* [[Menus|NPC Menus]]

== Warp Points ==
In Depth articles related to Warp Points are listed in this category
* [[Defining_Warp_Points|Defining a warp point]]

== Shops ==
Articles about Shops and Cash Shops are placed under this category.
* [[General Shop creation]]

== Functions ==
In Depth articles that are related to Functions can all be found under this category.
* [[Functions|How functions work]]
* [[WoE|Functions used in WoE]]

== Help Expand This Section ==
Help minimize the broadness of Scripting by helping create or expand the following pages

* [[Basic Scripting]]
* [[Binaries|Binary Variable System]]

Tag your articles with this

 <nowiki>[[Category:Scripting]]</nowiki>

[[Category:Scripting]]