== Syntax ==
*[[setmount]] {<flag>};
*checkmount()
== Description ==
If <flag> is MOUNT_NONE (or 0) this command will remove the mount from the
character.<br>
<br>
Otherwise it gives the invoking character the desired combat mount, where
allowed by their class and skills.<br>
<br>
<p>If no flag is specified, the mount is automatically chosen according to the
character's class and skills.<br>
<br>
The following flag values are accepted:

<pre>
 	MOUNT_NONE:
 	   - Dismount
 	MOUNT_PECO:
 	   - PecoPeco (Knight series class)
 	   - GrandPeco (Crusader series class)
 	   - Gryphon (Royal Guard)
 	MOUNT_WUG:
 	   - Warg (Ranger)
 	MOUNT_MADO:
 	   - Mado Gear (Mechanic)
 	MOUNT_DRAGON:
 	MOUNT_DRAGON_GREEN:
 	MOUNT_DRAGON_BROWN:
 	MOUNT_DRAGON_GRAY:
 	MOUNT_DRAGON_BLUE:
 	MOUNT_DRAGON_RED:
 	   - Dragon (Rune Knight)
 	   if MOUNT_DRAGON is specified, a the default (green) dragon will be used.
</pre>
Unlike '[[setfalcon]]' and '[[setcart]]' this will not work at all if they aren't of a 
class which can ride a mount.<br>
<br>
The accompanying function will return 0 if the invoking character is not on a
mount, and a non-zero value (according to the above constants) if they are.
<br>Note: in case of dragons, the returned value will always be MOUNT_DRAGON,
regardless of color.

== Example ==
<pre>
 	if (checkmount())
 		mes "Leave your mount outside! No riding mounts on the floor here!";
 
 	if (checkmount() == MOUNT_DRAGON)
 		mes "Wow, your dragon is cool! Can I pet it?";
</pre>
[[Category:Script Command]]