= Editing =
== Formatting ==
Check [http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting Formatting]
== Editing a Page ==
Anyone logged in with a [http://herc.ws/board/ Hercules Board] account is capable of editing all articles on this wiki, to edit a page hit the 'Edit' button on the top right (near the search bar)
== Creating a Page ==
You can use the wiki's URL for creating a new page. The URL to an article of the wiki is usually something like this:
*<code><nowiki>http://www.example.net/index.php/</nowiki>'''ARTICLE'''</code> &nbsp;&nbsp; or
*<code><nowiki>http://www.example.net/wiki/</nowiki>'''ARTICLE'''</code>

If you replace <code>'''ARTICLE'''</code> with the name of the page you wish to create, you will be taken to a blank page which indicates that no article of that name exists yet. Clicking the "{{int:edit}}" button at the top of the page will take you to the edit page for that article, where you can create the new page by typing your text, and clicking submit.
== Redirects to a Page ==
If you think another person may search for the page you've created by using a different name or spelling, please create the proper redirect(s).<br/>
You first create a new page, as you normally would, and in the content you place the following
 <nowiki>#REDIRECT [[</nowiki>''pagename''<nowiki>]]</nowiki>
where ''pagename'' is the name of the destination page. The word "redirect" is not case-sensitive, but there must be no space before the "#" symbol. Any text before the code will disable the code and prevent a redirect. Any text or regular content code after the redirect code will be ignored (and should be deleted from an existing page). However, to put or keep the current page name listed in a Category, the usual tag for that category is entered or kept on a line after the redirect code entry.
=== Viewing a Redirect ===
After making a redirect at a page, you can no longer get to that page by using its name or by any link using that name; and they do not show up in wiki search results, either. However, near the top of the destination page, a notice that you have been forwarded appears, with the source pagename as an active link to it. Click this to get back to the redirected page, showing the large bent arrow symbol and the destination for the redirect.
[[Category:Templates]]